Create a page for LSP14OwnableStep (#397)
lukso-network/docs: docs/standards/generic-standards/lsp14-ownable-2-step.md

---
sidebar_label: 'LSP14 - Ownable 2-Step'
sidebar_position: 3
---

# LSP14 - Ownable 2-Step

:::info Standard Document

[LSP14 - Ownable 2-Step](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-14-Ownable2Step.md)

:::

## Introduction

> The **[LSP14 Standard](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-14-Ownable2Step.md)** describes an extended version of **[EIP173](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-173.md)** that uses a 2-step process to transfer or renounce ownership of a contract, instead of instant execution.

Reviewer: This is the same content as what is in the Introduction section of the LSP14 standards specs.

I don't think we should have exactly the same content as the standards specs, but rather a short and layman version. A good headline would be:

- _what is the existing problem of the Ownable standard?_
- _what is the proposed solution using LSP14?_

And in the section **## What does this standard represent ?** I would describe:

_How LSP14 solves it._

In addition, this standard defines hooks that call the **[universalReceiver(...)](../smart-contracts/lsp0-erc725-account.md#universalreceiver)** function of the current owner and new owner, if these addresses are contracts that implement LSP1. This aims to:

- notify when the new owner of the contract should accept ownership.

> ![Transfer Ownership Notification](/img/standards/lsp14/transfer-ownership-notification.jpeg)

Reviewer: drawings and illustrations are great 👌 

I think this should not be the first thing in the Standard page. There should be a separate section about **notification hooks**.

- notify the previous and new owner when ownership of the contract has been fully transferred.

![Accept Ownership Notification](/img/standards/lsp14/accept-ownership-notification.jpeg)

## What does this standard represent ?

> **LSP14 - Ownable2Step** is a modified version of [EIP173 - Contract Ownership Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-173) that uses a safer mechanism for transferring and renouncing ownership.

Reviewer: I suggest to merge this sentence at the bottom, in my suggestion below.

Author: I did not understand this comment, let me know if it is still the case

> In EIP173, ownership of a contract is transferred directly to a new owner, potentially leading to blocking access to the contract. For instance, if the owner calls `transferOwnership()` and the new owner:

Reviewer: All of this content here in this section, starting from this paragraph up to _"making the processes of transferring and renouncing ownership a 2-step process."_ would fit better in the Introduction.

> In EIP173, ownership of a contract is transferred directly to a new owner, potentially leading to blocking access to the contract. For instance, if the owner calls `transferOwnership()` and the new owner:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the current `Ownable` standard (EIP173), ownership of a contract is transferred directly in one transaction via `transferOwnership(...)`. This presents some risks. For instance if the new owner:
```

- is an EOA that lost its private key.
- is an `address` entered incorrectly.

> The same thing happens with renouncing ownership of the contract, it is done in a single transaction. This can lead to renouncing ownership of the contract by accident and potentially losing access to the contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renouncing ownership of the contract in `Ownable` is also done in one transaction. If the owner accidentally calls `renounceOwnership(...)`, this leads to losing access to the contract.
```

> With **LSP14 - Ownable2Step**, those two problem are tackled by making the processes of transferring and renouncing ownership a 2-step process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**LSP14 - Ownable2Step** tackles these two problems using a safer mechanism for managing contract ownership. Transferring and renouncing ownership now works as a 2-step process.
```

---
sidebar_label: 'LSP14 - Ownable 2-Step'
sidebar_position: 3
---

# LSP14 - Ownable 2-Step

:::info Standard Document

[LSP14 - Ownable 2-Step](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-14-Ownable2Step.md)

:::

## Introduction

> **LSP14 - Ownable2Step** is a modified version of [EIP173 - Contract Ownership Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-173) that uses a safer mechanism for transferring and renouncing ownership.

Reviewer: Please move this paragraph below under the following section. As follow:

---

## What does this standard represent ?

**LSP14 - Ownable2Step** is an extended version of [EIP173 - Contract Ownership Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-173) that uses a safer mechanism for transferring and renouncing ownership. It modifies the processes of _tranferring and renouncing ownership_ in the following way:

In the current `Ownable` standard (EIP173), ownership of a contract is transferred directly in one transaction via `transferOwnership(...)`. This presents some risks. For instance if the new owner:

- is an EOA that lost its private key.
- is an `address` entered incorrectly.

Renouncing ownership of the contract in `Ownable` is also done in one transaction. If the owner accidentally calls `renounceOwnership()`, this leads to losing access to the contract.

> **LSP14 - Ownable2Step** tackles these two problems using a safer mechanism for managing contract ownership. Transferring and renouncing ownership now works as a 2-step process.

Author: The paragraph at line 23  is a continuation of the first paragraph of the Introduction and the paragraph at line 25 is describing a way of solving the problems.

---
sidebar_label: 'LSP14 - Ownable 2-Step'
sidebar_position: 3
---

# LSP14 - Ownable 2-Step

:::info Standard Document

[LSP14 - Ownable 2-Step](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-14-Ownable2Step.md)

:::

## Introduction

In the current [EIP173 - Contract Ownership Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-173) standard (EIP173), ownership of a contract is transferred directly in one transaction via `transferOwnership(...)`. This presents some risks. For instance if the new owner:

- is an EOA that lost its private key.
- is an `address` entered incorrectly.

Renouncing ownership of the contract in [EIP173 - Contract Ownership Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-173) is also done in one transaction. If the owner accidentally calls `renounceOwnership()`, this leads to losing access to the contract.

> **LSP14 - Ownable2Step** tackles these two problems using a safer mechanism for managing contract ownership. Transferring and renouncing ownership now works as a 2-step process.

Reviewer: Keep it more generic to introduce the solution proposed by LSP14.

```suggestion
What is needed is a safer mechanism for managing contract ownership.
```

## What does this standard represent ?

> **LSP14 - Ownable2Step** is a modified version of [EIP173 - Contract Ownership Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-173) that uses a safer mechanism for transferring and renouncing ownership.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**LSP14 - Ownable2Step** is an extended version of [EIP173 - Contract Ownership Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-173) that uses a 2-step process for transferring and renouncing ownership.
```
